README.rst, before:

sbt-osgi
========

Plugin for `sbt`_ to create `OSGi`_ bundles.


Installing sbt-osgi
-------------------

Just add the following line to your plugin definition (*plugins.sbt* file in the *project/* folder of your project or *plugins.sbt* file in the *~/.sbt/plugins/* directory, for details about plugins see the `sbt documentation`_), paying attention to the blank line between settings::

  addSbtPlugin("com.typesafe.sbt-osgi" % "sbt-osgi" % "0.4.0")

If you want to use the latest and greates features, you can also give the latest snapshot release a try::

  resolvers += Classpaths.typesafeSnapshots

  addSbtPlugin("com.typesafe.sbt-osgi" % "sbt-osgi" % "0.5.0-SNAPSHOT")


Adding sbt-osgi settings
-----------------------

Add the below line to your build definition, which will add the task *osgi-bundle* and also publish an OSGi bundle instead of a raw JAR archive. Again, pay attention to the blank line between settings::

  osgiSettings

If you don't want to publish an OSGi bundle instead of a raw JAR archive::

  defaultOsgiSettings

Notice that automatically publishing an OSGi bundle and *defaultOsgiSettings* are only available from version 0.3.0 on. If you are using an older version, you have to add the following settings to your build definition to enable publishing an OSGi bundle::

  packagedArtifact in (Compile, packageBin) <<= (artifact in (Compile, packageBin), OsgiKeys.bundle).identityMap

  artifact in (Compile, packageBin) ~= (_.copy(`type` = "bundle"))



Configuring sbt-osgi
-------------------

This plugin comes with the following configuration options, available as sbt settings:

- *OsgiKeys.bundleActivator*: Optional value for *Bundle-Activator* header, default is *None*
- *OsgiKeys.bundleSymbolicName*: Value for *Bundle-SymbolicName* header, default is *organization* plus *name*
- *OsgiKeys.bundleVersion*: Value for *Bundle-Version* header, default is *version*
- *OsgiKeys.dynamicImportPackage*: Values for *Dynamic-ImportPackage* header, default is the empty sequence
- *OsgiKeys.export-package*: Values for *Export-Package* header, default is the empty sequence
- *OsgiKeys.importPackage*: Values for *Import-Package* header, default is "*"
- *OsgiKeys.fragmentHost*: Optional value for *Fragment-Host* header, default is *None*
- *OsgiKeys.privatePackage*: Values for *Private-Package* header, default is *OsgiKeys.bundleSymbolicName* plus ".*"
- *OsgiKeys.requireBundle*: Values for *Require-Bundle* header, default is the empty sequence
- *OsgiKeys.additionalHeaders*: Map of additional headers to be passed to BND, default is the empty sequence


Mailing list
------------

Please use the `sbt mailing list`_ and prefix the subject with "[sbt-osgi]".


Contribution policy
-------------------

Contributions via GitHub pull requests are gladly accepted from their original author. Before we can accept pull requests, you will need to agree to the `Typesafe Contributor License Agreement`_ online, using your GitHub account - it takes 30 seconds.


License
-------

This code is open source software licensed under the `Apache 2.0 License`_. Feel free to use it accordingly.

.. _`sbt`: https://github.com/harrah/xsbt/
.. _`OSGi`: http://www.osgi.org/
.. _`sbt documentation`: https://github.com/harrah/xsbt/wiki/Plugins
.. _`sbt mailing list`: mailto:simple-build-tool@googlegroups.com
.. _`Apache 2.0 License`: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
.. _`Typesafe Contributor License Agreement`: http://www.typesafe.com/contribute/cla

Commit message:

Provided an example on how to use the "embeddedJars" setting.

README.rst, after:

sbt-osgi
========

Plugin for `sbt`_ to create `OSGi`_ bundles.


Installing sbt-osgi
-------------------

Just add the following line to your plugin definition (*plugins.sbt* file in the *project/* folder of your project or *plugins.sbt* file in the *~/.sbt/plugins/* directory, for details about plugins see the `sbt documentation`_), paying attention to the blank line between settings::

  addSbtPlugin("com.typesafe.sbt-osgi" % "sbt-osgi" % "0.4.0")

If you want to use the latest and greates features, you can also give the latest snapshot release a try::

  resolvers += Classpaths.typesafeSnapshots

  addSbtPlugin("com.typesafe.sbt-osgi" % "sbt-osgi" % "0.5.0-SNAPSHOT")


Adding sbt-osgi settings
-----------------------

Add the below line to your build definition, which will add the task *osgi-bundle* and also publish an OSGi bundle instead of a raw JAR archive. Again, pay attention to the blank line between settings::

  osgiSettings

If you don't want to publish an OSGi bundle instead of a raw JAR archive::

  defaultOsgiSettings

Notice that automatically publishing an OSGi bundle and *defaultOsgiSettings* are only available from version 0.3.0 on. If you are using an older version, you have to add the following settings to your build definition to enable publishing an OSGi bundle::

  packagedArtifact in (Compile, packageBin) <<= (artifact in (Compile, packageBin), OsgiKeys.bundle).identityMap

  artifact in (Compile, packageBin) ~= (_.copy(`type` = "bundle"))


Embedding a jar file in the bundle
----------------------------------

This example will embed all the "jackson" jars from your classpath inside the bundle.

	OsgiKeys.embeddedJars <<= Keys.externalDependencyClasspath in Compile map {
		deps => deps filter (d => d.data.getName startsWith "jackson") map (d => d.data)
	}


Configuring sbt-osgi
-------------------

This plugin comes with the following configuration options, available as sbt settings:

- *OsgiKeys.bundleActivator*: Optional value for *Bundle-Activator* header, default is *None*
- *OsgiKeys.bundleSymbolicName*: Value for *Bundle-SymbolicName* header, default is *organization* plus *name*
- *OsgiKeys.bundleVersion*: Value for *Bundle-Version* header, default is *version*
- *OsgiKeys.dynamicImportPackage*: Values for *Dynamic-ImportPackage* header, default is the empty sequence
- *OsgiKeys.export-package*: Values for *Export-Package* header, default is the empty sequence
- *OsgiKeys.importPackage*: Values for *Import-Package* header, default is "*"
- *OsgiKeys.fragmentHost*: Optional value for *Fragment-Host* header, default is *None*
- *OsgiKeys.privatePackage*: Values for *Private-Package* header, default is *OsgiKeys.bundleSymbolicName* plus ".*"
- *OsgiKeys.requireBundle*: Values for *Require-Bundle* header, default is the empty sequence
- *OsgiKeys.additionalHeaders*: Map of additional headers to be passed to BND, default is the empty sequence
- *OsgiKeys.embeddedJars*: A list of jars to embed inside the bundle. Jars are automatically added to *Bundle-Classpath*.


Mailing list
------------

Please use the `sbt mailing list`_ and prefix the subject with "[sbt-osgi]".


Contribution policy
-------------------

Contributions via GitHub pull requests are gladly accepted from their original author. Before we can accept pull requests, you will need to agree to the `Typesafe Contributor License Agreement`_ online, using your GitHub account - it takes 30 seconds.


License
-------

This code is open source software licensed under the `Apache 2.0 License`_. Feel free to use it accordingly.

.. _`sbt`: https://github.com/harrah/xsbt/
.. _`OSGi`: http://www.osgi.org/
.. _`sbt documentation`: https://github.com/harrah/xsbt/wiki/Plugins
.. _`sbt mailing list`: mailto:simple-build-tool@googlegroups.com
.. _`Apache 2.0 License`: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
.. _`Typesafe Contributor License Agreement`: http://www.typesafe.com/contribute/cla
